## Deploying the Backend

To deploy the backend, we went to render.com and created a new web service to deploy the backend. The Backend will be deployed and now all we have to do is to replace Axios urls with the one provided by render.com (it's recognisable because it has a purple color and a copy link button). Don't panic if the content doesn't load right away, just wait a little.

## Deploying the Frontend

Deploying the Frontend will be more challenging though. GitHub Pages loads only static webs, so we have to transform our static content to something GitHub can read. We'll need a npm module called gh-pages. Install it: ``npm install gh-pages --save-dev``.

In the **package.json** file, in the homepage section, we'll write the url to which we'll be redirected:

```
https://garazils.github.io/DevCamp-Capstone
```

We'll also write, in the script section, the command that must be executed prior to the code's execution itself, which is ``npm run build``.

```
"predeploy": "npm run build",
```

And also the script for the deployment itself, that's telling to gh-pages where the directory is.

> The directory name is in the webpack folder > dev.config:

```
output: {
  
    path: path.resolve(__dirname, '../dist'),
```

So, having the name, we type:

```
"deploy": "gh-pages -d dist"
```

We'll push the React app to the GitHub repository with ``npm run deploy``. That will cause the predeploy and deploy scripts defined in package.json to run. Under the hood, the predeploy script will build a distributable version of the React app and store it in a folder named build. Then, the deploy script will push the contents of that folder to a new commit on the gh-pages branch of the GitHub repository, creating that branch if it doesn't already exist.

Now, once we do this we'll configure the GitHubPages. We'll change the branch to gh-pages, and select the root folder, then click save.

## Fixing a small bug

The index file inside the build folder doesn't have the files' correct path. This causes that when deploying the fronpage, the system loads up the page and directly attaches the files without taking into account the GitHub folder structure. 

It goes like ``github_url/index_files`` instead of ``github_url/1-Frontend/build/files``, which is the correct folder structure. So we need to change the paths. The problem is that whenever we re-run the build or the deploy command, the applied changes are gone.

The only solution I found is this one: changing the React boilerplate, and following [this tutorial](https://github.com/gitname/react-gh-pages).

Install gh-pages: ``npm install gh-pages --save-dev``.

The problem is that all our structure gets changed, so some rework needs to be done such as re-writing paths or lowering the react-router-dom version (the 6th is installed), because the Switch statement for the routing won't work.

``"react-router-dom": "5.1.2",``

If we want to use the latest version, we have to change the Switch by Routes, and write the pages like this: 

```
<Route path="/" element={<Home />} />
```

Since the index.js, which was created with the ``npm create-react-app`` command, has a Hash router:

```
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom/client';
import './style/main.scss';
import App from './App';
import reportWebVitals from './reportWebVitals';
import { HashRouter } from "react-router-dom";

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(
  <HashRouter>
    <App />
  </HashRouter>
);

// If you want to start measuring performance in your app, pass a function
// to log results (for example: reportWebVitals(console.log))
// or send to an analytics endpoint. Learn more: https://bit.ly/CRA-vitals
reportWebVitals();
```

The site has an error. We need to remove the Router from the App.file, as well as from the imports:

```
import { Routes, Route } from "react-router-dom";
```

Also we need to change all the router-dom/something to just react-router-dom.

The start command also changes from ``npm run start`` to ``npm start``, it's found in the **package.json**.

We'll also have to re-install Font Awesome: ``npm install @fortawesome/fontawesome-svg-core @fortawesome/free-solid-svg-icons @fortawesome/react-fontawesome``. And primereact: ``npm install primereact``, axios as well ``npm i axios``, and react-router-dom: ``npm i react-router-dom``.

## Avoiding render.com slowing down

Just add this to the Backend to prevent Render.com slowing down [read more here](https://medium.com/@shriharshranjangupta/solution-for-render-com-web-services-spin-down-due-to-inactivity-a5c6061b581b):

```
const url = `https://yourappname.onrender.com/`; // Replace with your Render URL
const interval = 30000; // Interval in milliseconds (30 seconds)

function reloadWebsite() {
  axios.get(url)
    .then(response => {
      console.log(`Reloaded at ${new Date().toISOString()}: Status Code ${response.status}`);
    })
    .catch(error => {
      console.error(`Error reloading at ${new Date().toISOString()}:`, error.message);
    });
}


setInterval(reloadWebsite, interval);
```

## Final touches

Erase the localhost url in the backend and put, as an origin, your github page.

Install sass to avoid errors during deployment: ``npm install sass``.

To avoid a # appearing in the urls, thus breaking everything, remove the hash router from the src > index.js file and write this:

```
import { BrowserRouter } from "react-router-dom";
import axios from "axios";

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(
  <BrowserRouter>
    <App />
  </BrowserRouter>
```

Now, create a 404.html page that redirects all requests to the index.html, where React can handle the routing. Create a 404.html file in your public/ folder with this content:

```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0; url=./index.html" />
</head>
<body>
</body>
</html>
```

Install react-scripts ``npm install react-scripts --save``.

Push the changes and deploy.